TXT2REGEX

September, 28th - 2004

%!target: man
%!options(man) : -o txt2regex.man
%!options(html): -o txt2regex.html --mask-email

= NAME =

txt2regex - the console Regular Expression Wizard

= SYNOPSIS =

**txt2regex** [ --nocolor | --whitebg ] [ --all | --prog PROGRAMS ]

**txt2regex** --showmeta

**txt2regex** --showinfo PROGRAM [ --nocolor ]

**txt2regex** --history VALUE [ --all | --prog PROGRAMS ]

**txt2regex** --make LABEL [ --all | --prog PROGRAMS ]

= DESCRIPTION =

**txt2regex** is a Regular Expression Wizard that converts human
sentences to regexes.

In a simple interactive console interface, the user answer questions
and the program build the regexes for more than 20 programs, like Vim,
Emacs, Perl, PHP, Python, Procmail and OpenOffice.org.

It is a Shell Script 100% written with Bash builtin commands. No
compilation or extra commands are needed, just download and run.

Please visit the program homepage at
//""https://aurelio.net/projects/txt2regex/""//.

= OPTIONS =

: **--all**
Works with all registered programs

: **--help**
Prints the help message and quit

: **--history <value>**
Prints to STDOUT a regex from a history data

: **--make <target>**
Prints a ready regex for a common pattern

: **--nocolor**
Self-explanatory

: **--prog <p1,p2,...>**
Choose which programs to use (separated by commas)

: **--showinfo <program>**
Prints regex info about the program

: **--showmeta**
Prints a complete metachar table for all programs

: **--version**
Prints the program version and quit

: **--whitebg**
Colors adjusted to white background terminals


By default, all options are turned OFF. Just call it with no options
to launch the default interactive interface.

= DETAILS =

**--all** is cool but requires lots of lines (~35)

**--nocolor** is strong, so it kills --whitebg

**--showmeta** rules, try it

**--showinfo** uses reverse video output, --nocolor turns it off

**--history** is getting useful, stay tunned

**--make** is a remedy for headaches

**--prog** is nice to use your favorite programs, mix it with --make and --history


= EXAMPLES =

: Calling the program on the default interactive interface
``` $ txt2regex

: Calling the program on a white terminal
``` $ xterm -fg black -bg white ; txt2regex --whitebg

: Getting information
``` $ txt2regex --showmeta

: Getting specific information
``` $ txt2regex --showinfo sed

: Calling it for specific programs
``` $ txt2regex --prog vim,sed,grep,python

: Applying a history data
``` $ txt2regex --history '16421¤:01¤:'

: Getting ready regexes!
```
$ txt2regex --make hour
$ txt2regex --make number3 --prog perl
$ txt2regex --make date2 --all
```


= INTERFACE =

The program interface is simple and easy to use. This is its contents:

```
       +---------------------------------------+
       | -> Top menu                           |
       | -> Group menu                         |
       |                                       |
       | -> Regexes of the programs selected   |
       |    ...                                |
       |    ...                                |
       |                                       |
       | -> History                            |
       | -> Your prompt                        |
       |                                       |
       | -> The question                       |
       | -> The answers                        |
       |    ...                                |
       |    ...                                |
       +---------------------------------------+
```

All the basic commands can be used on the numeric pad on the keyboard,
but remember to turn ON the NumLock key.

  ||  Command  | Description
  |   **.**    | Quit the program (with confirmation)
  |   **0**    | Reset the Regular Expression
  |  **1-9**   | Answers the questions
  |   *****    | Toggles color ON/OFF
  |   **/**    | Add/remove programs on/from the list
  |   **|**    | Insert an alternation (where allowed)
  |   **(**    | Open a new group (where allowed)
  |   **)**    | Close the opened group (if any)
%Enter: redraw screen? (or just part of it?)

= BUGS =

Bug reports and contributions are VERY welcome!
Please send them to the author.

= AUTHOR =

Written and maintained by Aurelio Jargas <verde@aurelio.net>

= COPYRIGHT =

Copyright © 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004 Aurelio Marinho Jargas

This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
